everything is covered in invisible
ecosystems made of tiny life-forms
bacteria viruses and fungi our desks our
computers our pencils our buildings all
Harbor resident microbial landscapes as
we design these things we could be
thinking about designing these invisible
worlds and also thinking about how they
interact with our personal ecosystems
our bodies are home to trillions of
microbes and these creatures define who
we are the microbes in your gut can
influence your weight in your moods the
microbes on your skin can help boost
your immune system the microbes in your
mouth can freshen your breath or not and
the key thing is that our personal
ecosystems interact with ecosystems on
everything we touch so for example when
you touch a pencil microbial exchange
happens if we can't design the invisible
ecosystems in our surroundings this
opens a path to influencing our health
in unprecedented ways I get asked all of
the time from people is it possible to
really design microbial ecosystems and I
believe the answer is yes I think we're
doing it right now
but we're doing it unconsciously I'm
going to share data with you from one
aspect of my research focused on
architecture that demonstrates how
through both conscious and unconscious
design were impacting these invisible
worlds this is the Lillis business
complex at the University of Oregon and
I worked with a team of architects and
biologists to sample over 300 rooms in
this building we wanted to get something
like a fossil record of the building and
to do this we sampled dust from the dust
we pulled out bacterial cells broke them
open and compared their gene sequences
this means that people in my group were
doing a lot of vacuuming during this
project this is a picture of Tim
who write when I snapped this picture
reminded me he said Jessica the last lab
group I worked in I was doing fieldwork
in the Costa Rican rainforests and
things have changed dramatically for me
so I'm gonna show you now first what
we've found in the offices and we're
gonna look at the data through a
visualization tool that I've been
working on in partnership with Autodesk
the way that you look at this data is
first look around the outside of the
circle you'll see broad bacterial groups
and if you look at the shape of this
pink lobe it tells you something about
the relative abundance of each group so
at 12 o'clock you'll see that offices
have a lot of alpha proteobacteria and
at one o'clock you'll see that bacilli
are relatively rare let's take a look at
what's going on in different space types
in this building if you look inside the
restrooms they all have really similar
ecosystems and if you were to look
inside the classrooms those also have
similar ecosystems but if you look
across these space types you can see
that they're fundamentally different
from one another I like to think of
bathrooms like a tropical rainforest I
told Tim if you could just see the
microbes it's kind of like being in
Costa Rica kind of and I also like to
think of offices as being a temperate
grassland this perspective is a really
powerful one for designers because you
can bring on principles of ecology and a
really important principle ecology is
dispersal the way organisms move around
we know that microbes are dispersed
around by people and by air so the very
first thing we wanted to do in this
building was look at the air system
mechanical engineers design air handling
units to make sure that people are
comfortable that the air flow and
temperature is just right they do this
using principles of physics and
chemistry but they could also be using
biology if you look at the microbes in
one of the air handling units in this
building you'll see that they're all
very similar to one another and if you
compare this to the
microbes in a different air handling
unit you'll see that they're
fundamentally different the rooms in
this building are like islands in an
archipelago and what that means is that
mechanical engineers are like eco
engineers and they have the ability to
structure biomes in this building the
way that they want to another facet of
how microbes get around is by people and
designers often cluster rooms together
to facilitate interactions among people
or the sharing of ideas like in labs and
in offices given that microbes travel
around with people you might expect to
see rooms that are close together have
really similar biomes and that is
exactly what we found if you look at
classrooms right adjacent to one another
they have very different ecosystems but
if you go to a class sorry an office
that is a farther walking distance away
the ecosystem is fundamentally different
and when I see the power that dispersal
has on these bio Geographic patterns it
makes me think that it's possible to
tackle really challenging problems like
hospital-acquired infections I believe
this has got to be in part a building
ecology problem all right I'm going to
tell you one more story about this
building I am collaborating with Charlie
Brown he's an architect and charlie is
deeply concerned about global climate
change he's dedicated his life to
sustainable design when he met me and
realized that it was possible for him to
study in a quantitative way how his
design choices impacted the ecology and
biology of this building he got really
excited because it added a new dimension
to what he did he went from thinking
just about energy to also starting to
think about human health he helped
design that some of the air handling
systems in this building and the way it
was ventilated so what I'm first going
to show you is what air that we sampled
outside of the building what you're
looking at is a signature of bacterial
community
in the outdoor air and how they vary
over time next I'm going to show you
what happened when we experimentally
manipulated classrooms we block them off
at night so that they got no ventilation
a lot of buildings are operated this way
probably where you work and companies do
this to save money on their energy bill
what we've found is as these rooms
remain relatively stagnant until
Saturday when we opened the vents up
again when you walked in those rooms
they smelled really bad and our data
suggests that it had something to do
with leaving behind the airborne
bacterial soup from people did the day
before
contrast this two rooms that were
designed using a sustainable passive
design strategy where Eric came in from
the outside through louvers in these
rooms the air tracked the outdoor air
relatively well and when Charlie saw
this he got really excited he felt like
he had made a good choice with the
design process because it was both
energy-efficient and it washed away the
building's resident microbial landscape
the examples that I just gave you are
about architecture but they're relevant
to the design of anything imagine
designing with the kinds of microbes
that we want in a plane or in a on a
phone there's a new microbe I just
discovered it it's called bliss and it's
been shown to both ward off pathogens
and give you good breath wouldn't it be
awesome if we all had lists on our
phones a conscious approach to design
I'm calling it bio inform design and I
think it's possible thank you
[Applause]
[Music]